[From “The Klk’k guide to one’s interstellar locale” 12th ed. Ivan Kltakln tr. J. Valthorpe  
catalogued Andolian central distribution, 3263]

Space: n. 1.	That which is between objects of interest.
	  2. 	A rather large, dark, and primarily empty expanse where, contrary to 	
 		one’s initial fears, one is exceptionally unlikely to be eaten by a grue.
	  3.	The void in which one must travel if one does not wish to spend one’s 	
		existence wandering around the underdeveloped worlds of minor 	
		political entities.
.
.
.

Rlaan: n. 1. 	Humanized representation of the name used by the pair of species from 	
		the 4th planet in system SCx9362.
	  2.	Either of the two species from SCx9362.  Rlaan are radialy symmetric 	
		beings with a base four split.  Their workers stand about one meter high 
		at the prime knee, and are nearly one meter in diameter.  Members of 	
		their warrior caste tend towards being 50% larger in both dimensions.  	
		Rlaan natively breathe a methane-based atmosphere, and must wear 	
		special breathing apparatus to negotiate oxygen-nitrogen environments.  
		Their skeletal structure, being an exoskeletal carapace supported 	
		internally by millions of reinforcing struts, is best suited to lower 	
		gravity worlds, and leads to the use of mechanical assistance on larger 	
		or denser rocky bodies.  What is reported of Rlaan culture appears to be 
		a rather dry affair, and their music has been compared to the set of 	
		frequencies one would expect to register if a Myztherian Octpanther 	
		were let loose in a campanile.  On a more disturbing note, the Rlaan 	
		central archives possess the largest collection of data concerning Jerry 	
		Lewis and Yoko Ono outside of Human space.  The Rlaan are, 		
		however, regarded by many of the other space faring races as much 	
		more intelligent than their culture’s taste in art would suggest.
.
.
.


Aera: n. 1. 	A member of an intelligent centauroid species from some misbegotten 	
		hell of a jungle world orbiting SCx62381.  The Aera are oxygen-	
		nitrogen breathers, with a strong internal skeleton, smooth, ashen-gray 	
		leathery skin, a decided lack of psychiatric assistance for their 		
		obviously repressed dissatisfaction with natural ecology, and, at least 	
		according to the Cult of the Devourer on Mishtal Seven, a flavor 	
		remarkably similar to that of a human with a high protein diet, but only 	
		if both have been served with a nice Chianti. 
